= API Overview =

== Runtime ==
The API application is '''Pulse.Api''' (ASP.NET Web API 2 on OWIN JWT bearer auth).

== General Characteristics ==
* Endpoint style is domain-grouped by area (projects, plants, notifications, auth-related surfaces, etc.).
* Business logic is generally delegated to service/repository layers.
* Authorization combines module claim checks and membership scope checks.

== Representative Endpoint Families ==
=== Projects ===
* Project tree/node retrieval for overview workflows
* Global project/task search constrained by user access scope
* Project mutation endpoints gated by project membership/ownership

=== Plants and Membership ===
* Plant-scoped membership endpoints for user-group assignment
* Allowed-plants lookups used by project creation and user-scoped selectors

=== Notifications ===
* Unread active notifications endpoint used by navbar dropdown
* Grouped active notifications endpoint for dedicated notifications page
* Mark-as-read transaction endpoint

== Security Expectations ==
* LIST/GET endpoints should typically require matching VIEW module claims.
* POST/PUT/DELETE should require matching mutation claims.
* Membership and plant scope restrictions should be applied before data return.

== Integration with Pulse.Web ==
Pulse.Web consumes API endpoints for interactive pages and AJAX workflows.
JWT bearer tokens are injected into browser-side API calls by a prefilter script.

== Related Pages ==
* [[Authentication and Authorization]]
* [[Web UI and Notifications]]
* [[Projects and Roadmaps]]
